<h1>
Async
Tic-Tac-Toe
Game
</h1>

Developed By:
Umair Shaikh<br><br>
//Problem faced during building app is at the end
<h2>1.	Goal of Game:</h2>
Players must arrange their marks so that they form a continuous line of three cells that runs either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. By blocking the opponent's line from being completed, one opponent can keep the other from winning.


<h2>2.	Features:</h2>

	Asynchronous game<br>
	Multiplayer <br>
	Attractive Aesthetic<br>
	User Authentication and Management


<h2>3.	Languages and Framework Used:</h2>

 Language:	JavaScript, CSS, HTML <br>
 Front-end:	ReactJs <br>
 Back-end:	Nodejs, Express <br>
 Database:	getStream (Cloud API) <br>
 Deployment:	Netlify

<h2>4.	Logical explanation of Architectural choices in the project:</h2>

1. Using getStream API: 

-	I have used getStream API, because I had used it before in my college project (Chatting App using ReactJS). So, I had pleasant experience in this API. I have also worked with MongoDB, but because of short period of time, I used this Cloud based API.
-	This API handles all the Back-end activities such as Authentication, storing and retrieval of user data.

2. Every player will not see their piece as ‘X’:

-	Whoever gets the first turn will see their piece as ‘X’ and the opponent will see their piece as ‘O’. 
-	Because player don't always have to be ‘X’, and the player wants to be ‘O’ sometimes.


<h2>5.	Assumptions made:</h2>

<b>1. How to start a game:</b>
-	I have assumed that the user should enter opponent’s email id for starting the game.
-	As soon as user will enter opponent’s email id and  will remain in waiting state until the opponent enters the user's email id.
-	Basically, both users who wants to play should enter each other’s email id to start the game.

<b>2. Layout:</b>
-	Can work on Desktop as well as on Mobile phone.
-	I used iPhone XE's resolution to build this layout, which is 375 x 667.

<h2>6. Problem Faced:</h2>

<b>1. Starting an asynchronous game with anyone via their email id:</b>

-	Problem: The problem was that when a player goes offline and comes back, how he will still get the game in the same state as before.
-	Solution:  Recorded every move of both players in the database, so when the offline player comes back to the game, he can see all the moves made by him

<b>2. Creating cookies:</b>

-	Problem: The problem was how to make a cookie for client because I had no experience before.
-	Solution: I used universal-cookie library for maintain sessions and creating cookies. The cookie value can be set to any value one wants, however, here I am setting it to the access token which is generated by the server so that I can access it throughout the application.

<b>3. Homepage(Game History):</b>

-	Problem: Can’t get the access of Game lobbies that have been played before. 

<b>4. Displaying status – ‘Waiting for you to play’:</b>

-	Problem: Got problem in displaying the status of ‘Your move’ and ‘Opponent’s move’. On both side it is displaying same status.

